Proposal: Build a Hiking website

I want to build a website that will be useful for the hiking I've been doing recently. There are primrary goals. 

1. Track the weather. I would like to use an API to track the weather in the area. This may consist of tracking the weather in multiple different places. Primarily, I've been exploring the Issaquah Alps, so I would like to have a feed of the weather for Issaquah. However, I also walk most days of the week in the area closer to my home, so I'd like a feed of the local weather. I imagine them stacked on top of each other on the same page.

2. Keep a log of hikes I have done. This page will include a map of the area - probably the state of Washington. I have used Google Maps as a source for embeded maps. I hope to build on this experience to flesh out the map with specific locations beyond the one address I used for a previous project. This page will also keep a log of the length of hikes, elevation gains according to my smart watch and the wta.org website, as well as speed. 

3. A blog page with images. This page will include a picture taken on the hike, preferrably at a lookout point or the summit. It will also include a trip report that includes information beyond just the stats tracked on the map page. This will include trail conditions and general thoughts regarding the hike, in addition to how busy the trail was and parking information - anything that seems important.

4. Gear Page. This page will include different pieces of gear I am using with reviews for what I like about them. There will be pictures, prices at different locations with links to the right sites, and descriptions. I will talk about how often I use different pieces of gear and how I like them. 


I want to build this website because I have been hiking a lot recently and I want to keep a good log of my experiences. With the summer coming up, I'm sure I will do a lot more hiking so I will have a lot of material to add to the website. The weather tracking will be useful to quickly glance at the appropriate weather data, and it will be interesting to have the two (or more) locations stacked next to each other so I can compare them (more out of curiousity). The map and log will be useful so I don't do the same hike multiple times over the course of the spring/summer. It will also be nice to log the data I collect and see how it compares to the readily available information as recorded by the WTA (Washington Trails Association). Speed is something that can vary a lot under different conditions, and I can just add another row or section if I do the same hike again (for comparative purposes). The blog will be interesting as another way to track my experiences. There are many hiking blogs out there, but I think it will be fun to do a trip report. For local hikes, it won't be as interesting but if I drive to a location like Mt. Rainier or Bellingham, it will be cool to have a record. The gear page will be useful because I like the gear aspect. Providing a review with links to several sites offering the product may be useful for others in the area looking for something to add to their wardrobe. 